okay so let's get started uh
a lot of people on instagram so uh okay
so muscle confusion theory
uh i think this came about for a couple
of different reasons
one is that people notice
when they drastically change their
exercise program
they get sore and
the question is does soreness equal
growth
is that gains is that is that something
that we need to go
looking for do i need to just anyway
uh do we need to go looking for soreness
of course the answer is no uh swords has
nothing to do
with with gains there's never been any
evidence
that that was a thing
in fact micro tears and muscle are
highly associated with soreness uh
marathon runners
and cyclists have the most micro tears
of uh
any type of athlete they don't build big
anything
so why get excited
about muscle soreness i think the other
thing was
arnold schwarzenegger was a big
promoter of shocking the muscle into
growth
um that's not a thing
so we all love arnold schwarzenegger
however
that's still not a thing so what
we need to look at is what you're trying
to do to the central nervous system
when you expose load to the body whether
you lift a weight or even if you're
running or something like that why does
adaptation happen
you give a clear signal to the central
nervous system or the central nervous
system
makes a determination we don't have
enough of x
like we don't have enough bicep so we're
going to work really hard to build more
bicep tissue
so to do that there's certain strategies
and so like when you look at
what the american college of sports
medicine has done and when they put out
a position paper
that means they've considered hundreds
of studies
potentially and looked at
people testing muscle confusion versus
regular standard lifting with uh with an
aim towards having a greater output
every time i don't want to call that
progressive resistance because
there's another sort of poor use of
of progressive resistance that we're
going to talk about later in another
video
but ultimately whether you you
bench press x weight for 10 reps in the
next
workout you can do that same thing for
11 repetitions
you got stronger that's a greater output
and so that means that you have
uh increased your strength so growing
muscle
so uh when when that happens
uh especially when sticking to the same
program you're going to have a greater
amount of success
than if you're just haphazardly doing
one one thing versus the other
and one of the reasons that might be
happening is
that focuses you on skill building
except only one time because like let's
say you do a chest workout push-ups and
then
your next thing is all based on flies
and then the next thing is all
based on one arm work or cross body work
or something like that
you you are not really building a skill
you're just
haphazardly doing one thing or another
and then you go to something else and
you're haphazardly doing that too
and so it ultimately just just makes you
kind of evenly bad at everything
uh you're not building any skills out of
that and uh
it's not optimum for muscular growth or
performance
think about the part of the reason the
american college sports medicine
looked at this was when it comes to
athletic training for a very specific
purpose
so very elite athletes you wouldn't take
an elite swimmer
and say all right now what we want you
to do is become
a great cyclist because that's really
going to help you in the water
like nobody would do that nobody
so ultimately you want to be a better
swimmer you got to swim
and you you have to stay focused on
what you want so for for what i'm
encouraging people to do is be as strong
and as lean as possible those
those are two goals that we can we can
get to pretty easily
and uh by by
using the right triggers and the right
stimuli for the central nervous system
so when you show that's the central
nervous system
that you have a deficit of bicep tissue
or trapezius tissue and
you first go to a fatigue from a
myofibril standpoint
then a sarcoplasmic standpoint meaning
first the amount of contractile protein
the actual tissue there
and then the amount of fuel held in the
tissue you ran that all into one
experience
central nervous system doesn't have a
choice we just gotta build more traps
that's it and both stimuli
manifest in both types of growth and the
growth can happen very quickly if you
really
clearly fatigue
that musculature now uh
so what what else uh one of the
justifications for like mixing up your
workout is when people say they're bored
i hear that from from trainers i don't
want to keep my clients from being bored
well there's to me to me there's
effective and not effective
right like so you wouldn't brush your
teeth with your socks
because you're really bored of your
toothbrush right
like you just wouldn't do that
you use a toothbrush every day so is it
exciting
i don't know i don't particularly feel
like high-fiving a lot of people when i
brush my teeth
uh i you know probably feel a bit better
after i do it but i feel a lot better
after
i do my my x3 workout so uh
i i apologize if if the proper
program seems monotonous it will be
monotonous
but you're not doing it for the sake of
getting a workout that's another thing
that
man i just want to throw somebody off a
building but somebody says hey can you
get a workout from that's like what does
that even mean
get a workout that's just that's
that's the vehicle not the destination
that's just completely confusing what
your objective is and
i think basically foolish uh get a
workout
it's a trigger result and you're always
driving towards
triggering that result so working out is
not
it's not entertainment you the
entertainment the enjoyment is
being stronger and leaner everywhere you
go
having better posture everywhere you go
that's what you enjoy
and and for the people who say oh you
know strength training is hard it hurts
it's like
suck it up you don't have
a whole lot of time to commit to getting
that work in that very brief period of
time and pulling those triggers in the
body and doing the protocol the right
way
and then you just wait for the growth to
happen because it will
so other things i just want to recap and
i think we're i think we're just about
good on this subject i don't want to i
don't want to beat a dead horse here uh
oh
i did also say the whole like workout of
the day thing that crossfitters do
um that's the same kind of like muscle
confusion
theory and ultimately like workouts work
like somebody who does push-ups one day
does something else another day it's not
like
they're gonna get nothing out of it they
just won't get as much
out of that as opposed to
really sticking with something
consistently and applying it and
analyzing it analyzing and analyzing and
trying to get
a little bit more a little bit more a
little bit more out of it each time
then you've got to measure in your head
or if you're writing it down or
making a video for yourself so you can
critique it later
like all those things are with an eye
towards progress not just shuffling the
deck and doing some
stuff so workout of the day yeah
sorry thumbs down you know wouldn't do
it uh
so when ultimately i did a podcast
yesterday where
the the
interviewer was asking me some questions
about like how you're throwing a lot of
ideas that are really upsetting
to the strength training industry well
you know what the strength training
industry
is it really doing that great when i
walk down the street who looks like they
exercise
nobody that's who basically nobody
so why are people just grabbing a hold
of so many of these
principles that you can just do a
google scholar or medline search on and
realize that they're not real
uh and then on top of that people are so
emotionally tied to these things
that obviously aren't working so
why be tied to it